.TH DISCOURSE-TUI 1 "2025-10-30" "discourse-tui-client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
discourse-tui \- Terminal UI client for Discourse forums
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B discourse-tui
[\fB\-\-debug\fR|\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-\-cookies\fR|\fB\-c\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-url\fR|\fB\-u\fR \fIURL\fR]
[\fB\-\-logout\fR|\fB\-l\fR]
[\fB\-\-reset\-cache\fR|\fB\-r\fR]
[\fB\-\-output\fR|\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-cooldown\fR \fIDURATION\fR]
[\fB\-\-load\-all\fR|\fB\-a\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-auth\fR|\fB\-na\fR]
[\fB\-\-encrypt\-cookies\fR|\fB\-e\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B discourse-tui
is a terminal user interface client for browsing Discourse forums. It provides an interactive way to read topics, posts, and participate in discussions without requiring API tokens. The client uses cookie-based authentication and supports offline caching for improved performance.
.PP
The client features a responsive terminal interface for navigating topics, reading posts, searching content, and creating new topics and posts. It supports multiple Discourse instances and can operate in both authenticated and unauthenticated modes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Enable debug logging to the log file.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cookies " \fIFILE\fR"
Specify the path to the cookies file. If not provided, uses the default location ~/.config/discourse-tui-client/cookies.txt.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-url " \fIURL\fR"
Specify the Discourse instance URL (e.g., https://forum.example.com). If not provided in authenticated mode, will prompt during login.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-logout
Logout by deleting the cookies file and exit.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reset\-cache
Reset the local cache and force fresh data fetch.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " \fIFILE\fR"
Export topics to a file. Supported formats: .txt, .json, .html. When this option is used, the TUI will not start.
.TP
.BR \-\-cooldown " \fIDURATION\fR"
Set cooldown duration between page fetches (default: 500ms). Examples: 500ms, 1s, 2s.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-load\-all
Load all available topics at startup (may be slow for large forums).
.TP
.BR \-na ", " \-\-no\-auth
Run in unauthenticated mode. Allows browsing public forums without login.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-encrypt\-cookies
Encrypt the cookies file with AES-GCM encryption using a password.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start the client with default settings:
.B discourse-tui
.TP
Connect to a specific forum instance:
.B discourse-tui \-\-url https://forum.example.com
.TP
Export topics to HTML file:
.B discourse-tui \-\-output topics.html
.TP
Run in unauthenticated mode on a public forum:
.B discourse-tui \-\-no\-auth \-\-url https://meta.discourse.org
.TP
Use custom cookies file with encryption:
.B discourse-tui \-\-cookies ~/my-cookies.txt \-\-encrypt\-cookies
.TP
Reset cache and enable debug logging:
.B discourse-tui \-\-reset\-cache \-\-debug
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/discourse-tui-client/cookies.txt
Default location for storing authentication cookies. Can be encrypted with AES-GCM.
.TP
.I ~/.config/discourse-tui-client/colors.txt
Configuration file for customizing UI colors. Format: key=value (e.g., title=#FAFAFA).
.TP
.I ~/.cache/discourse-tui-client/instances/*/latest.json
Cached topic data for offline access.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/discourse-tui-client/logs/activity.log
Debug log file (only created when debug mode is enabled).
.SH COOKIE ENCRYPTION
When using the \fB\-\-encrypt\-cookies\fR flag, the cookies file is encrypted using AES-GCM encryption. You will be prompted to enter a password during login and whenever the application starts. The same password must be used to decrypt the cookies.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR If you forget your encryption password, you will need to log in again to recreate the cookies file.
.SH COLOR CUSTOMIZATION
The client supports color customization through the colors.txt configuration file. The file uses a simple key=value format where values can be hex colors (e.g., #FAFAFA) or ANSI color codes.
.PP
Available keys:
.RS
.IP title
Color for titles
.IP item
Color for list items
.IP selected
Color for selected items (ANSI code or hex)
.IP status
Color for status messages
.IP error
Color for error messages
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (authentication failure, network issues, invalid arguments, etc.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR wget (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Sudo-Ivan <https://github.com/Sudo-Ivan/discourse-tui-client>
